what is cloud???
ans----->
	In the simplest terms, cloud computing means storing and accessing data and programs over the Internet instead of your computer's hard drive. The cloud is just a metaphor for the Internet. ... When you store data on or run programs from the hard drive, that's called local storage and computing
	The cloud enables users to access the same files and applications from almost any device, because the computing and storage takes place on servers in a data center, instead of locally on the user device. This is why a user can log into their Instagram account on a new phone after their old phone breaks and still find their old account in place, with all their photos, videos, and conversation history. It works the same way with cloud email providers like Gmail or Microsoft Office 365, and with cloud storage providers like Dropbox or Google Drive.

Advantages--->
1. Efficient recovery: Cloud computing delivers faster and more accurate retrievals of applications and data. With less downtime, it is the most efficient recovery plan.
2.Accessibility: Access your data anywhere, anytime. An Internet cloud infrastructure maximizes enterprise productivity and efficiency by ensuring your application is always accessible. This allows for easy collaboration and sharing among users in multiple locations.
3.Easy implementation: Cloud hosting allows business to retain the same applications and business processes without having to deal with the backend technicalities. Readily manageable by the Internet, a cloud infrastructure can be accessed by enterprises easily and quickly.
4. Cost per head: Overhead technology costs are kept at a minimum with cloud hosting services, enabling businesses to use the extra time and resources for improving the company infrastructure.
5.Flexibility for growth: The cloud is easily scalable so companies can add or subtract resources based on their needs. As companies grow, their system will grow with them.
6.No hardware required: Since everything will be hosted in the cloud, a physical storage center is no longer needed. However, a backup could be worth looking into in the event of a disaster that could leave your company's productivity stagnant.


Disadvantage--->
1.No Redundancy: A cloud server is not redundant nor is it backed up. As technology may fail here and there, avoid getting burned by purchasing a redundancy plan. Although it is an extra cost, in most cases it will be well worth it.
2.May not get all the features: Not all cloud services are the same. Some cloud providers tend to offer limited versions and enable the most popular features only, so you may not receive every feature or customization you want. Before signing up, make sure you know what your cloud service provider offers.
3.No longer in control: When moving services to the cloud, you are handing over your data and information. For companies who have an in-house IT staff, they will be unable to handle issues on their own. However, Stratosphere Networks has a 24/7 live help desk that can rectify any problems immediately.
4.Bandwidth issues: For ideal performance, clients have to plan accordingly and not pack large amounts of servers and storage devices into a small set of data centers.
5.Doesn't mean you should do away with servers: You may have fewer servers to handle which means less for your IT staff to handle, but that doesn't mean you can let go of all your servers and staff. While it may seem costly to have data centers and a cloud infrastructure, redundancy is key for backup and recovery.


what are the types of cloud?

ans---> 
1)Private cloud: A private cloud is a server, data center, or distributed network wholly dedicated to one organization.

2)Public cloud: A public cloud is a service run by an external vendor that may include servers in one or multiple data centers. Unlike a private cloud, public clouds are shared by multiple organizations. Using virtual machines, individual servers may be shared by different companies, a situation that is called "multitenancy" because multiple tenants are renting server space within the same server.

3)Hybrid cloud: Hybrid cloud deployments combine public and private clouds, and may even include on-premises legacy servers. An organization may use their private cloud for some services and their public cloud for others, or they may use the public cloud as backup for their private cloud.

4)Multicloud: Multicloud is a type of cloud deployment that involves using multiple public clouds. In other words, an organization with a multicloud deployment rents virtual servers and services from several external vendors – to continue the analogy used above, this is like leasing several adjacent plots of land from different landlords. Multicloud deployments can also be hybrid cloud, and vice versa.


what is EC2?

ans--->
Amazon EC2 is the most used AWS service. It lets users create virtual machines of their own choice of configurations. Here in this blog, you will learn what is EC2 and how it works. Towards the end, there is also a beginner-friendly demo to help you get acquainted with Amazon EC2.

EC2 provides following benefits:

1)Auto-scaling:

This is the benefit which makes most businesses opt for AWS EC2. It is already explained earlier how Netflix uses auto-scaling to its advantage and provides a crash-free experience.

Auto-scaling is basically providing resources according to the demand. They either scale up or scale down corresponding to the increase or decrease in demand.

2)Pay-as-you-go:

You will be charged by the hour, and you have to pay only for what you have used. A company, XYZ might be using 100 servers normally, and on Mondays it scales down to 50 servers. So, it only has to pay for 50 servers those days, not the usual fee for the usage of 100 servers.

Even when you use your Amazon EC2 instances services for a few hours, you only need to pay for that time period and nothing more.

3)Increased Reliability:

AWS is spread across 20 worldwide regions with 61 availability zones (AZs) which helps your business when it is expanding. Also, this will increase the load speed of your application around the world.

You can always store multiple copies of your application in multiple AZs so that when one data center fails or loses data, the application will not fail completely.

4)Elasticity:

Instead of 10 low-configuration machines, you could rent a single high-configuration machine with an OS of your preferred choice for your application. Elasticity is the feature from which Elastic Compute Cloud got its name.




